Create video-content.md (#521)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/messaging-and-math/content-marketing/video-content.md

---
description: '50% DRAFT (revised by Ashley Dotterweich on Oct 20, 2020)'
---

# Video Content Best Practices

This document provides guidelines for creating video content for Mattermost. It covers:
* What is video content used for?
* How can I create great video content?
* What is the process for developing video content?
* What is the process for publishing video content?
* How is video content promoted?

## The Pros and Cons of Video Content

**What is video content used for?**

> Video content provides a dynamic experience for viewers and can add personality and context to a topic where written content cannot. We should use video content when video provides the best audience experience for a piece of content. Some examples include discussions between 2 or more people and tutorials with complex or highly visual workflows. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Video content provides a dynamic experience for viewers and can add personality and context to a topic where written content cannot. We should use video content when video provides the best audience experience for a piece of content. Some examples include discussions between two or more people and tutorials with complex or highly visual workflows. 
```

> Video can also be helpful for repurposing live events and sessions for longer term use. This includes presentations at live events and internal product demos. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Videos can also be helpful for repurposing live events and sessions for longer term use. This includes presentations at live events and internal product demos. 
```

While video content is great, it isn’t always the best option for a public-facing asset, even when raw footage has already been recorded. If you aren't sure if a piece of content would be a good fit for video content, don't be afraid to ask! 

## Video Recording Best Practices
Great video content starts with a clean recording. If you know that a session will be used for video content, aim for getting as high quality as possible. Some tips for getting the best raw content:
* **Use a good microphone:** As an audiophile friend used to say, “anything is better than your laptop’s mic.”
* **Improve your lighting:** Natural light is always best; check different locations to figure out where your lighting will be flattering and clear.

> * **Eliminate audio & visual clutter:** Select a good time to record, if possible; Is light in your office is great in the morning but dungeon-like in the afternoon, or if your street has a lot of loud traffic between 3-5. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Eliminate audio & visual clutter:** Select a good time to record, if possible; if light in your office is great in the morning but dungeon-like in the afternoon, or if your street has a lot of loud traffic between 3-5.
```

> * **Do a quick check of your “recording” room:** Is there a basket of laundry sitting on the table in the background? Is your door open & roommates likely to start knocking around the kitchen? Do what you can to minimize distractions before you get started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Do a quick check of your “recording” room:** Is there a basket of laundry sitting on the table in the background? Is your door open and roommates likely to start knocking around the kitchen? Do what you can to minimize distractions before you get started.
```

> * **Include buffer time to your recording:** Don’t start and stop recording right away -- it’s good to give a few seconds of buffer between the beginning

Reviewer: May be an incomplete sentence with "between the beginning".

> * **Don’t be afraid of do-overs:** if you’re recording something specifically for video distribution (not live) and something happens -- a police car goes by outside, cat knocks over your mic, you say the wrong word -- feel free to stop, take a breath, and redo that section. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Don’t be afraid of do-overs:** If you’re recording something specifically for video distribution (not live) and something happens - a police car goes by outside, cat knocks over your mic, you say the wrong word - feel free to stop, take a breath, and redo that section.
```

> * **Take notes:** If your co-speaker mentions a customer that we shouldn’t discuss publicly, or you needed to do-over on something, time-stamped notes are helpful for making the editing process faster and easier. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Take notes:** If your co-speaker mentions a customer that we shouldn’t discuss publicly, or you needed to redo something, time-stamped notes are helpful for making the editing process faster and easier.
```

> *An additional note for recording webinars, meetings and other large-group calls: if there are more people than the speakers on the call being recorded, have them mute their mics and turn off their webcams before the recorded section begins. You can opt to hide participants who are not visible in your Zoom settings. This helps keep the recording free of visual and audio clutter.* 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*An additional note for recording webinars, meetings, and other large-group calls: If there are more people than the speakers on the call being recorded, have them mute their mics and turn off their webcams before the recorded section begins. You can opt to hide participants who are not visible in your Zoom settings. This helps keep the recording free of visual and audio clutter.*
```

## Post-Production/Video Processing Workflow
### What to prepare: 
* A description of the video
* Raw video(s) for editing
* Transcript (if available)
* Title and end cards (as needed)
* Notes
    * Where does the video start? Where does it end? 
    * Do multiple videos need to be edited together?
    * Are there any sections that need to be removed? 
    * Are there any sound or video quality issues that should be checked?

### Submitting to Fiverr
For video editing we use Fiverr vendors to prepare polished videos. The following are our preferred vendors: 
* Watchclosely
* Graphifyme
* matteo505

### Reviews & Edits
Minimize the number of edits and stakeholders for any given video, and be prompt with giving feedback to Fiverr editors. Fiverr tickets close automatically after 3 days, so be mindful of getting your feedback in quickly. 

Editing should include:
* Editorial owner
* (Optional) Internal stakeholders, e.g. a developer who gave a presentation on an upcoming feature 
* (Optional) External stakeholders, e.g. a customer who participates in a video case study

## Preparing Finished Videos for Publication

> Mattermost videos are hosted on Youtube, which has a very simple upload workflow. Upload the video via Youtube Studio and include the following metadata:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mattermost videos are hosted on YouTube, which has a very simple upload workflow. Upload the video via YouTube Studio and include the following metadata:
```

* Thumbnail image
* Video title
* Video description
* Tags

> If video is going to be available on our Youtube channel, assign it to appropriate playlists. If video will not be available on Youtube (e.g. a customer testimonial that will only be embedded on the Customers page), do not assign it to playlists and set state to “Unlisted” (not “Private”).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If video is going to be available on our YouTube channel, assign it to appropriate playlists. If video will not be available on YouTube (e.g. a customer testimonial that will only be embedded on the Customers page), do not assign it to playlists and set state to “Unlisted” (not “Private”).
```

> For access to our Youtube channel, ping @hanna.park.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For access to our YouTube channel, ping @hanna.park.
```

## Video Content Distribution  

> Video content may be promoted as part of a blog post, guide or other larger content campaign, or it may require its own dedicated campaign. Follow best practices for our [Content Distribution process](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/messaging-and-math/content-marketing/content-development-distribution-processes). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Video content may be promoted as part of a blog post, guide or other larger content campaign, or it may require its own dedicated campaign. Follow best practices for our [Content Distribution process](https://handbook.mattermost.com/operations/messaging-and-math/content-marketing/content-development-distribution-processes).
```

## Video Recording Best Practices

Great video content starts with a clean recording. If you know that a session will be used for video content, aim for getting as high quality as possible. Some tips for getting the best raw content:
* **Use a good microphone:** As an audiophile friend used to say, “anything is better than your laptop’s mic.”
* **Improve your lighting:** Natural light is always best; check different locations to figure out where your lighting will be flattering and clear.
* **Eliminate audio & visual clutter:** Select a good time to record, if possible; if light in your office is great in the morning but dungeon-like in the afternoon, or if your street has a lot of loud traffic between 3-5.
* **Do a quick check of your “recording” room:** Is there a basket of laundry sitting on the table in the background? Is your door open and roommates likely to start knocking around the kitchen? Do what you can to minimize distractions before you get started.

> * **Include buffer time to your recording:** Don’t start and stop recording right away -- it’s good to give a few seconds of buffer between the beginning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Include buffer time to your recording:** Don’t start and stop recording right away - it’s good to give a few seconds of buffer between the beginning and end of the video so there's a smooth transition.
```

---
description: '50% DRAFT (revised by Ashley Dotterweich on Oct 20, 2020)'
---

> # Video Content Best Practices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Video Content Guidelines
```

> This document provides guidelines for creating video content for Mattermost. It covers:

Reviewer 2: The bulletpoints don't match up with the subheadings below. Options:
1. Rename them to match the headings in the content.
2. Make them sentences introduced by: "The guidelines should give you an idea of how to: "Create great content", Aim for the correct audience", Record high-quality videos" etc. Then it's not prescriptive but also flows with the ideas below.

Author: I like #2 -- if I remember correctly, my goal was to provide a high-level overview of what's covered, rather than a page-level table of contents.

* What is video content used for?
* How can I create great video content?
* What is the process for developing video content?
* What is the process for publishing video content?
* How is video content promoted?

> ## The Pros and Cons of Video Content

Reviewer 2: I recommend removing this as the subheadings don't address the heading.

We could then break down the subheadings into H3 headers so they're easier to navigate and appear in the TOC. @aedott, @amyblais - thoughts?

Author: Makes sense to me!

**What is video content used for?**

Video content provides a dynamic experience for viewers and can add personality and context to a topic where written content cannot. We should use video content when video provides the best audience experience for a piece of content. Some examples include discussions between two or more people and tutorials with complex or highly visual workflows.

Videos can also be helpful for repurposing live events and sessions for longer term use. This includes presentations at live events and internal product demos.

While video content is great, it isn’t always the best option for a public-facing asset, even when raw footage has already been recorded. If you aren't sure if a piece of content would be a good fit for video content, don't be afraid to ask!

> ## Video Recording Best Practices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Setting Up your Recording Environment 
```
We don't generally use "best practices" as it's not aligned to the LP of "iteration" afaik. :)
